# USS Qualifier RID Test Data Generation

This directory contains a series of tools for generating flight data for qualifying Network Remote ID compliance.

## Flight track dataset generator
[`flight_state.py`](flight_state.py): An API to generate multiple flight paths and patterns within a specified bounding box. You can specify a bounding box in any part of the world the generator will create a grid for flights for the bounds provided. In addition, circular flight paths will be generated within that grid. The output of this API are flight data file artifacts in GeoJSON [FeatureCollection](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946#section-3.3) format. In addition to the flight tracks, query bounding boxes are also generated as a GeoJSON FeatureCollection format. Finally the flight tracks are converted to a `RIDAircraftState` data: by adding metadata and timestamps to the points. The conversion of flight track points to RIDAircraftState can be considered as a simplified simulation. All the files, once generated are stored in the `test_definitions/rid` directory.

## Create Flight Record from KML
[`kml_flights.py`](kml_flights.py) accepts a KML file with one/many flights defined in the KML folders and produce a set of JSON files for each such flight, snapshotting the aircraft's state every sample_rate. Every flight needs exactly one path (LineString) and this is the path the aircraft takes over the ground. Speed and altitude of the flight  are defined by the polygons surrounding the path.

Following are the specifications for input KML:

- **Flight path**: KML must contain one folder for each flight path. Folder name should be prefixed with "flight: " and the flight ID of the flight, e.g. "flight: fly_north". Every flight needs exactly one path (LineString) and this is the path the aircraft should take over the ground. Rest of the characteristics of the flight are defined in the folder's description, including the sample_rate (in Hertz).

- **Speed zones**: Speed zones for a flight should be defined as polygons nested in the flight folder. Each speed polygon must be prefixed with "speed: " and include m/s in parenthesis. For example: "speed: Mission (2.5)".

- **Altitude zones**: Like speed, the polygon names prefixed with "alt: " are considered Altitude polygons for a flight path. Altitude of each point in the flight path is interpolated based on the distance of the point from the nearby altitude polygons.

- **Speed and Altitude interpolation**: Speed and Altitude of each point is interpolated by adding weight of surrounding zones where weigh of each zone is 1/distance of the zone from the point. For example: If zone 1 was at 10m altitude 10m away, zone 2 was at 20m altitude 50m away, and zone 3 was at 30m altitude 100m away, the weights would be 1/10 for zone 1, 1/50 for zone 2, and 1/100 for zone 3.  So, the aircraft altitude would be (10/10 + 20/50 + 30/100) / (1/10 + 1/50 + 1/100) = 13.1m.

- Flight states for a KML file can be generated by running [../bin/generate_rid_test_definition_from_kml.sh](../bin/generate_rid_test_definition_from_kml.sh). run_flight_state_locally.sh expects absolute path to the input KML file and output folder as parameters.
Example: `./run_flight_state_locally.sh <kml-file> <local-output-folder>`
`-d` flag can be passed to generate output state coordinates for each flight path. 
