<!-- 
# This file has been automatically generated by /deploy/infrastructure/utils/generate_terraform_variables.py.
# Please do not modify manually.
 -->

# Terraform variables

The following sections describe the variables of this terraform module.

## terraform-google-kubernetes

### google_project_name

*Type: `string`*

Name of the GCP project hosting the future cluster


### google_zone

*Type: `string`*

GCP zone hosting the kubernetes cluster
List of available zones: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones#available

Example: `europe-west6-a`


### google_dns_managed_zone_name

*Type: `string`*

GCP DNS zone name to automatically manage DNS entries.

Leave it empty to manage it manually.


### google_kubernetes_storage_class

*Type: `string`*

GCP Kubernetes Storage Class to use for CockroachDB and Prometheus persistent volumes.
See https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/persistent-volumes for more details and
available options.

Example: `standard`


### app_hostname

*Type: `string`*

Fully-qualified domain name of your HTTPS Gateway ingress endpoint.

Example: `dss.example.com`


### crdb_hostname_suffix

*Type: `string`*

The domain name suffix shared by all of your CockroachDB nodes.
For instance, if your CRDB nodes were addressable at 0.db.example.com,
1.db.example.com and 2.db.example.com, then the value would be db.example.com.

Example: db.example.com


### cluster_name

*Type: `string`*

Name of the kubernetes cluster that will host this DSS instance (should generally describe the DSS instance being hosted)

Example: `dss-che-1`


### node_count

*Type: `number`*

Number of Kubernetes nodes which should correspond to the desired CockroachDB nodes.
**Always 3.**

Example: `3`


### google_machine_type

*Type: `string`*

GCP machine type used for the Kubernetes node pool. Example: n2-standard-4 for production, e2-medium for development


