# Upcoming Release Notes

## About & Process

This file aggregates the changes and updates that will be included in the next release notes.

Its goal is to facilitate the process of writing release notes, as well as making it easier to use this repository from its `master` branch.

Pull requests that introduce major changes, especially breaking changes to configurations, or otherwise important new features, should update this file
with the details necessary for users to migrate and fully use any added functionality.

At the time of release, the content below the horizontal line in this file will be copied to the release notes and deleted from this file.

### Template & Examples

The release notes should contain at least the following sections:

#### Mandatory migration tasks

* This version requires a database schema update. The migration is backward compatible with DSS `vX.Y.Z`.
  * For Tanka, in main.jsonnet, update desired_scd_db_version to `x.y.z`.
  * For Helm, upgrading a deployed chart with this new version will automatically migrate the version of the schema to `x.y.z`.

#### Optional migration tasks

* [terraform] cockroachdb.image.tag key with the image tag value v21.2.7 should be added to user's values.yaml files since default will be removed
  in a future release.

#### Important information

* Feature X has changed behavior to Y

#### Minimal database schema version

| Schema  | CockroachDB  | Yugabyte |
|---------|--------------|----------|
| RID     | vX.Y.Z       | vX.Y.Z   |
| SCD     | vX.Y.Z       | vX.Y.Z   |
| AUX     | vX.Y.Z       | vX.Y.Z   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Release Notes for vX.Y.Z

## Mandatory migration tasks

## Optional migration tasks

* `enable_opentelemetry` has been split into two flags: `enable_metrics` and `enable_tracing`
* A new pair of migrations for CockroachDB [has been added](https://github.com/interuss/dss/pull/1517) for RID (4.1.0) and SCD (3.4.0) to remove useless indexes.
  * The DSS will work regardless of the migration status.
  * This migration will improve performance. If that is not the case for a specific scenario that was missed, please downgrade to the previous version and open an issue.
  * These indexes are still useful for Yugabyte, so no such migration exists for it.
  * Details about migrations are available [there](https://interuss.github.io/dss/latest/operations/database-migrations/)

## Important information

* Fixed a bug where the `evict` command ignored entries without a locality. If your DSS instance does not have a locality set, the next `evict` run may be slow while it processes the backlog of old entries.
* Fixed a bug where Helm charts and Tanka files didn't actually perform any actions via the `evict` command when run via cron jobs (because no locality was set and no delete flag was specified). If you have a large number of entries, the next run may be slow while it processes the backlog of old entries.
* AWS load balancer names are no longer enforced by Helm charts or Tanka files. Existing clusters will retain their current names, while new ones will use names automatically generated by AWS.
* Server timeout flag has been renamed from `server timeout` to `server_timeout`.
* The `duration` field, previously recorded as a string containing the unit, has been changed to `duration_ms`, a float representing the duration in milliseconds, rounded to 0.01.
* Grafana version deployed by Helm charts or Tanka files have been upgraded to 13.0. Ensure to read grafana changelog based on your current version.

## Minimal database schema version

| Schema  | CockroachDB | Yugabyte |
|---------|-------------|----------|
| AUX     |             |          |
| RID     |             |          |
| SCD     |             |          |
