<!-- 
# This file has been automatically generated by /deploy/infrastructure/utils/generate_terraform_variables.py.
# Please do not modify manually.
 -->

# Terraform variables

The following sections describe the variables of this terraform module.

## terraform-google-dss

### google_project_name

*Type: `string`*

Name of the GCP project hosting the future cluster


### google_zone

*Type: `string`*

GCP zone hosting the kubernetes cluster
List of available zones: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones#available

Example: `europe-west6-a`


### google_dns_managed_zone_name

*Type: `string`*

GCP DNS zone name to automatically manage DNS entries.

Leave it empty to manage it manually.


### app_hostname

*Type: `string`*

Fully-qualified domain name of your HTTPS Gateway ingress endpoint.

Example: `dss.example.com`


### crdb_hostname_suffix

*Type: `string`*

The domain name suffix shared by all of your CockroachDB nodes.
For instance, if your CRDB nodes were addressable at 0.db.example.com,
1.db.example.com and 2.db.example.com, then the value would be db.example.com.

Example: db.example.com


### cluster_name

*Type: `string`*

Name of the kubernetes cluster that will host this DSS instance (should generally describe the DSS instance being hosted)

Example: `dss-che-1`


### node_count

*Type: `number`*

Number of Kubernetes nodes which should correspond to the desired CockroachDB nodes.
**Always 3.**

Example: `3`


### google_machine_type

*Type: `string`*

GCP machine type used for the Kubernetes node pool.
Example: `n2-standard-4` for production, `e2-medium` for development


### google_kubernetes_storage_class

*Type: `string`*

GCP Kubernetes Storage Class to use for CockroachDB and Prometheus persistent volumes.
See https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/persistent-volumes for more details and
available options.

Example: `standard`


### image

*Type: `string`*

Full name of the docker image built in the section above. build.sh prints this name as
the last thing it does when run with DOCKER_URL set. It should look something like
gcr.io/your-project-id/dss:2020-07-01-46cae72cf if you built the image yourself as
documented in /build/README.md, or docker.io/interuss/dss.

`latest` can be used to use the latest official interuss docker image.

Example: `latest` or `docker.io/interuss/dss:v0.6.0`


### authorization

*Type: `object({'public_key_pem_path': '${optional(string)}', 'jwks': "${optional(object({'endpoint': '${string}', 'key_id': '${string}'}))}"})`*

One of `public_key_pem_path` or `jwks` should be provided but not both.

- public_key_pem_path
If providing the access token public key via JWKS, do not provide this parameter.
If providing a .pem file directly as the public key to validate incoming access tokens, specify the name
of this .pem file here as /public-certs/YOUR-KEY-NAME.pem replacing YOUR-KEY-NAME as appropriate. For instance,
if using the provided us-demo.pem, use the path /public-certs/us-demo.pem. Note that your .pem file should built
in the docker image or mounted manually.
Example:
```
Example 1 (dummy auth):
{
public_key_pem_path = "/test-certs/auth2.pem"
}
Example 2:
{
public_key_pem_path = "/jwt-public-certs/us-demo.pem"
}
```

- jwks
If providing a .pem file directly as the public key to validate incoming access tokens, do not provide this parameter.
- endpoint
If providing the access token public key via JWKS, specify the JWKS endpoint here.
Example: https://auth.example.com/.well-known/jwks.json
- key_id:
If providing the access token public key via JWKS, specify the kid (key ID) of they appropriate key in the JWKS file referenced above.
Example:
```
{
jwks = {
endpoint = "https://auth.example.com/.well-known/jwks.json"
key_id = "9C6DF78B-77A7-4E89-8990-E654841A7826"
}
}
```


### enable_scd

*Type: `bool`*

**Default: true**

Set this boolean true to enable ASTM strategic conflict detection functionality


### should_init

*Type: `bool`*

**Default: none**

Set to false if joining an existing pool, true if creating the first DSS instance
for a pool. When set true, this can initialize the data directories on your cluster,
and prevent you from joining an existing pool.

Example: `true`


### desired_rid_db_version

*Type: `string`*

**Default: "latest"**

Desired RID DB schema version.
Use `latest` to use the latest schema version.

Example: `4.0.0`


### desired_scd_db_version

*Type: `string`*

**Default: "latest"**

Desired SCD DB schema version.
Use `latest` to use the latest schema version.

Example: `3.1.0`


### crdb_locality

*Type: `string`*

Unique name for your DSS instance. Currently, we recommend "<ORG_NAME>_<CLUSTER_NAME>",
and the = character is not allowed. However, any unique (among all other participating
DSS instances) value is acceptable.

Example: <ORGNAME_CLUSTER_NAME>


### crdb_external_nodes

*Type: `list(string)`*

**Default: []**

Fully-qualified domain name of existing CRDB nodes outside of the cluster if you are joining an existing pool.
Example: ["0.db.dss.example.com", "1.db.dss.example.com", "2.db.dss.example.com"]


### kubernetes_namespace

*Type: `string`*

**Default: "default"**

Namespace where to deploy Kubernetes resources. Only default is supported at the moment.

Example: `default`


